---
outline: deep
---

# Thunk Library Compiler (TLC)

The **Thunk Library Compiler (TLC)** is a program that generates GTL/HTL source code.

## Thunk Manifest File

This `TLC` tool reads a `.cpp` file called **Thunk Manifest File**, generating one GTL or HTL source file at a time.

`TLC` contains multiple generators that generate thunk code that meets the requirements for function signatures that conform to different patterns. For instance, for a plain function like `memcpy`, the code generated by `TLC` only contains the argument packing and unpacking. However, for a function like `printf`, it is necessary to decode the variadic arguments in `GTP` based on the format string, which is rather complex.

The manifest requires descriptive code to be written for some special functions because `TLC` may not recognize them correctly.

## Procedure Description

For example, the `vprintf` generator in TLC can only recognize the pattern from the function name and the GNU attribute declaration, but the `SDL_LogMessageV` in `libSDL2` conforms to the style of `vprintf` but does not contain these features. Therefore, it needs to be hinted in the manifest.

```c++
namespace lore::thunk {

    template <>
    struct ProcFnDesc<::SDL_LogMessageV> {
        using BUILDER_PASS = pass::vprintf<>;
    };

}
```

Use `ProcFnDesc` to declare a descriptive block for a function or `ProcCbDesc` to declare a descriptive block for a callback.

```c++
namespace lore::thunk {

    template <auto F>
    struct ProcFnDesc;

    template <class T>
    struct ProcCbDesc;

}
```

## Override Generated Procedure

For some special functions, if we want to override a GTP phase, we can implement it directly in the manifest. For example, for `SDL_LoadObject`, we hope it directly calls `dlopen`.

```c++
namespace lore::thunk {

    template <>
    struct ProcFn<::SDL_LoadObject, G2H, Entry> {
        static void *invoke(const char *path, int flags) {
            return dlopen(path, flags);
        }
    };

}
```
- If a phase is implemented in the manifest, then `TLC` will not generate code for it.

## TLC Pass

`TLC`'s generators are similar to passes of LLVM toolchain because each generator has to scan the function to determine whether and how to generate different code, so they are named as "Pass" in `TLC`.

Passes are classified into 3 kinds: **Builder Pass**, **Transformer Pass**, and **Misc Pass**.

### Builder Pass

TODO